Support Lithuanian (#1273)
EuroEval/EuroEval: docs/datasets/lithuanian.md

# 🇱🇹 Lithuanian

This is an overview of all the datasets used in the Lithuanian part of EuroEval. The
datasets are grouped by their task - see the [task overview](/tasks) for more
information about what these constitute.

## Sentiment Classification

### Lithuanian Emotions

> This dataset is a combination of machine translated versions of the [GoEmotions dataset](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.00547) and the [Kaggle emotions dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nelgiriyewithana/emotions). GoEmotions consists of English Reddit comments and the Kaggle dataset contains English Twitter messages. Both datasets have been machine translated to Lithuanian.

Reviewer: Preference for using DOI links when available, as they're less prone to link rot.

```suggestion
This dataset is a combination of machine translated versions of the [GoEmotions dataset](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2005.00547) and the [Kaggle emotions dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nelgiriyewithana/emotions). GoEmotions consists of English Reddit comments and the Kaggle dataset contains English Twitter messages. Both datasets have been machine translated to Lithuanian.
```

```json
{
  "text": "Aš jaučiuosi taip nekantrus, kad turiu laukti daugiau nei mėnesį ir tuo pačiu labai stengiuosi nelinkėti to laiko",
  "label": "positive"
}
```
```json
{
  "text": "Jaučiuosi gana bendras šeimininkas Toros",
  "label": "negative"
}
```
```json
{
  "text": "Florida, jis gavo du",
  "label": "neutral"
}
```

When evaluating generative models, we use the following setup (see the
[methodology](/methodology) for more information on how these are used):

- Number of few-shot examples: 12
- Prefix prompt:
  ```
  Toliau pateikti dokumentai ir jų nuotaika,
  kuri gali būti 'teigiamas', 'neutralus' arba 'neigiamas'.
  ```
- Base prompt template:
  ```
  Dokumentas: {text}
  Nuotaika: {label}
  ```
- Instruction-tuned prompt template:
  ```
  Dokumentas: {text}

  Klasifikuokite nuotaiką dokumente. Atsakykite su 'teigiamas', 'neutralus' arba 'neigiamas', ir nieko kito.
  ```
- Label mapping:
    - `positive` ➡️ `teigiamas`
    - `neutral` ➡️ `neutralus`
    - `negative` ➡️ `neigiamas`

You can evaluate this dataset directly as follows:

```bash
$ euroeval --model <model-id> --dataset lithuanian-emotions
```

## Named Entity Recognition

### WikiANN-lt

> This dataset was published in [this paper](https://aclanthology.org/P17-1178/) and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This dataset was published in [this paper](https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1178) and is
```

  "label": "b"
}
```

```json
{
  "text": "Natalie mano, kad smaragdai yra gražūs brangakmeniai, bet Betty taip nemano. _ nusipirko vėrinį su dideliu smaragdu. Ką reiškia tuščia vieta _?\nPasirinkimai:\na. Pasirinkimas A: Natalie\nb. Pasirinkimas B: Betty",
  "label": "a"
}
```

When evaluating generative models, we use the following setup (see the
[methodology](/methodology) for more information on how these are used):

- Number of few-shot examples: 5
- Prefix prompt:
  ```
  Toliau pateikti daugiavariančiai klausimai (su atsakymais).
  ```
- Base prompt template:
  ```
  Klausimas: {text}
  Pasirinkimai:
  a. {option_a}
  b. {option_b}
  Atsakymas: {label}
  ```
- Instruction-tuned prompt template:
  ```
  Klausimas: {text}
  Pasirinkimai:
  a. {option_a}
  b. {option_b}

  Atsakykite į aukščiau pateiktą klausimą atsakydami 'a' arba 'b', ir nieko daugiau.
  ```

You can evaluate this dataset directly as follows:

```bash
$ euroeval --model <model-id> --dataset winogrande-lt
```

> ## Summarisation

Reviewer: Remove this?
